checking out
thank you
good morning from a rainy and miserable
gomul
here in the very far east of belarus
before i've taken you to some smaller
towns in belarus by bruisk
but today i've come down to this part of
the country because i want to check out
what a village looks like in belarus
go and have a look at what life is like
there so
i'm going to go to the bus station now
here in gommel and
uh try and find a bus out here to some
rural region
and see how people are living in a
village wow it's a grim day
hopefully it clears up gets a little bit
sunny later on but anyway
join me if you want to on this adventure
into the heartland into the bella rush
in the deepest part of belarus
to check out some villages let's do it
what grim old weather is and i've got a
cold
bad throw but i'm gonna try and keep
myself jolly
the worst comes to worst i'll just buy
some vodka let's go into the bus station
these are all the towns and the villages
of the region
[Music]
loyal all these little towns
all right then let's go and buy oh
there's a map over there check out this
map of the region and then we'll decide
where to go
all right i bought a ticket we're going
to a place called karma
i hope my karma's good today let's go
and check it out
got 25 minutes all the bus so you can't
get a coffee somewhere
this early hour of the morning
exciting trip ahead today hopefully we
meet some cool people
ah worst coffee ever
these are what better russian buses look
like here in
provinces check it out would you reckon
and then out in the distance there you
got the factory belching out some grey
smoke
you've got a whole row of apartment
buildings soviet apartment buildings
there
in the distance we found where we're
going here we go
number seven
[Music]
karma wow it's so exciting to be going
to karma
wherever it is let's see oh [ __ ]
it's pouring with rain
i'm not really dressed for it i don't
even have a hat
should have brought an umbrella
hopefully the sky clears up let's see
you can tell the people the provinces
they wear thick shoes thick black shoes
to protect them from the snow and the
mud in the villages i used to have a
romantic image of what a russian village
was like
of moving there buying a little house
there and setting up a life maybe in a
village just reading books reading check
off for the rest of my life
and then i went once in the winter and
saw the muddy
slushy here's my bus the muddy slushy
nastiness of a russian village in the
winter in the spring
and i was like you know what maybe i
won't move to a village in russia
look at the weather look at that
snow sleet nasty as hell
oh man
this has the potential to be a very
nasty day
right it's not that one
it's confusing reading these tickets
when i walk around here with my camera
talking and people walk past me i hear
them saying to each other
oh correspondent correspondent
correspondent it makes me sound like i'm
some kind of professional journalist
i like it it's better than them saying
some
dude with some youtube channel i like
being a correspondent gives me an air of
authority
maybe they think i work for the times
daily mail hopefully correspondent
correspondent
hey my bus has arrived to karamah this
little green number check it out
check out the deluxeness all right
jump on
i'm on the bus this is pretty quiet
there's only two other people here
so corma definitely isn't a tourist
destination not many people going down
there
or at least not this time in the morning
so uh we'll see what it's like
hopefully the snow has stopped by the
time we get there
let's see
in this region of the country what we're
seeing along the way is
forest farmland small villages
and cemeteries cemeteries full of
hundreds of blue crosses
this region of belarus has had a tragic
history
and i'm seeing evidence of that now
we've stopped off in a town called
dobrush which is about two kilometers on
the russian border
you've gotta hear the old bus station
built in pre-revolutionary times
this part of the region this part of the
country has been shifting
borders have been shifting once this
town of dorbrush was in
poland and then it was in russia once it
was under the
domination of sweden when sweden
controlled this area
before the battle of poltava where the
russians defeated the swedes once in
parole
then the soviets came and then finally
in 1991 belarus
for the first time in its life in its
history obtained true independence and
became an independent country
dog rush in the winter
it's a little bit grim
[Music]
oh
well we've arrived in karma
let's check it out one horse town but
what i can see over there
there's a beautiful old church that
we'll check out
there's a shop there's four
dudes hanging out outside the post
office the old
wooden post office whoa there goes my
bus all the people off to the bright
lights of gombel
have fun in gumball guys have fun in
gumball
i'm gonna check out karma right then
exciting right
a little rural community in belarus
that has been many foreigners come down
before let's check it out then so first
things first let's go and check out this
building
this old soviet style building you've
still got the hammer and sickle on the
top
let's see who this dude is
he's got a statue it is
i have no idea some bill a russian dude
he's got here a little flag
which means he was probably a member of
the communist party
let's have a look up here up here on the
building here we've still got the old
hammer and sickle
you see in belarus this stuff hasn't
been removed unlike in the ukraine where
it's all been ripped down and torn down
in belarus you still see the old hammer
and sickle
on everything well all right
bloody how it's cold it's going to do
some more exploring here in karamah
the worst time to travel in belarus and
this region
isn't the winter as you might expect
when it's really cold but it's the
spring right now
because the snow melts and turns
everything to a muddy slush
and if you're not prepared like i'm not
in my converse
then um you're gonna suffer the best
time to travel is the summer or
the winter when it's snowy underfoot
not now
in the provinces of belarus everything
is painted
blue dark blue light blue i call it
bella russian blue because everything
is painted in this color for some reason
i never quite know but every time you go
to a graveyard or something or you see a
church
or anything pretty much in the region
it's painted this color blue
like up here everything is blue the
benches are blue
the bins are blue everything's blue the
church is blue
can we go inside
always open
the russian people are deeply religious
the church plays a huge part in the life
of people especially the elderly
i suppose when you've been let down so
much by governments and
by the harshness of life that you put
your hope in something else you put your
faith in god
maybe it's some kind of way to ensure
that the next life
isn't as harsh as this life
all right let's carry on let's follow
the road old lads are here they still
drive them down here in the provinces
the oldie
in the west we call them larders but in
russia you call them
oh there's a pavement let's follow the
pavement
you can see here the horse manure or cow
manure
this is a rural farming community so
animals and stuff will all be passing
through here
this region of belarus is very rural
the only employer really is
either small little shops and post
office and government offices
or the farm it's where people make their
money
here comes a big pile of steaming [ __ ]
these are
in fact all you can smell in the air is
cow [ __ ]
the smell of the village
here's the local lake kids probably
swimming this in the summertime
do their fishing the biggest pastime in
belarus and russia
is fishing no one fishes like a russian
they love to just go out and sit on the
riverside
put their line in the water or in the
winter sit on the ice make a hole in the
ice
drop a line in try and catch some fish
here we have an old bella russian house
this is a traditional izba a wooden
house in the village
and up here i want to show you something
well without falling in the snow
up here is a red star
when you see a red star on a house it
means that someone
lived here who fought in the war
everyone fought in the war if you're old
enough look at it now
wow the smell of [ __ ] is in the air
[ __ ] is in the air every time i look
around
and i don't know if i can do it
here's some kind of abandoned old
building all boarded up and
done up some pre-revolutionary building
pre-revolutionary building hard to speak
when it's so cold your mouth stops
working
i don't know what this building was
before maybe it belonged to some rich
landowner
some kulak who was liquidated and
executed under the communists or sent
north to the camps
as unfortunately many people who owned a
horse or owned their own cow
were i wonder if we can have a little
look in
probably where the local
dope smokers come to hang out but
there's bottles of beer in here
can we get in here somehow let's have a
little expiration
we can see up here the old roof tiling
that they decorated it
under in the soviet union it's all
collapsing now this ceiling
and up there more this oral building was
done up what's through here
man i can't see a thing
right there let's get the old telephone
out
shine a light
can you get in here
anyone in here
there's the old fireplace which is now
all cemented up
so as i say this is a pre-revolutionary
building
that was oh what's in this a bag of
stuff a bag of clothes
what sort of clothes they got in here
maybe something i can wear some bloody
oh look at this maybe i could wear that
no it's a children's jumper
i don't want to be walking around the
villages of belarus in a children's
jumper i'll get a reputation
i think i'm gonna have to stick my hand
out and ask for a lift
maybe this jaguar give me a lift maybe
maybe maybe no
whoa this dude's out of control
[Music]
you came around that corner like a wild
thing
he gave zero
uh uh this is the state farm
which is called a kolkaz which is on the
soviet times what happened after the
soviet union took control of the region
after the russian revolution they got
all the farms
that obviously belonged to the local
people before and amalgamated them
into big communal farms
and so here they are so this one here is
called
cool lifker called leifker
let's have a look at it and so mostly
it's cattle farming
chicken farming is there such a thing as
chicken farming
chickens keeping chickens
called glovka this is a cattle farm
there's a picture up there of a bull
and i can smell [ __ ]
well
we're coming to the end of karma here's
the road sign saying that the town's
over
are we going to carry on i reckon we
can't call it quits there i mean what's
that
we've got a little bit of an adventure
we haven't met anyone yet
wow let's get a thumbnail
often when i watch my videos back i'm
like why did i not get a good picture
for a thumbnail this might be a good one
just me looking out across the bleak
landscape moodily
pensively with a thought
the sign in the background
a good one might use that
right then so what now
let's carry on just walking down the
road and see what we find there's got to
be something in the distance
some village or something hopefully
i haven't eaten any breakfast so i've
got to find like a cafe or something
i might have to knock on some old
babbushka's door
and say please can i have some bread
and butter or something some gritska
can i have a pink sausage any chance of
a pink sausage
someone stopped picking me up
oh my god what legend
legends pick me up
and drop me off at the turn off to the
next village which is called
all right let's check it out five
kilometers i've got a walk now
and there's some other legends pick me
up five kilometers to hiroshima
those guys who just gave me a lift
dropped me off it was funny because
every other word that they were using
was a russian swear word in russian they
call it mutt
swear words
and i realize that i'm not manly enough
russians the russians are more brutal
with their language i'm too polite
my ex-wife who is bella russian
she was always using the word bleen that
was the worst swear word she would use
with blin
oh blin or maybe if she is really angry
she'd say
short or short
and so i've picked that up and i also
say
that's not manly enough i need to be
more brutal to fit in here
i need to start upping the tempo and
saying
magazine coming up is the world's most
overloaded tractor
i get hit by it if this thing makes it
to the next village without tipping off
i'll be amazed
check it out those hay bales on top
wow
hey i see something in the distance the
roof of a house
you won't be able to see it from here
but i can just see in the distance
really in the distance
the little roof poking up over the
treetops
oh imagine if there was some smoke
coming out of a chimney
some bread was being cooked in an oven
by a nice babushka
and she said come on in young
correspondent from the king fema times
come on in sit down i'm going to cook
you some filming
you can have a nice drama key with me
and a cup of warm chai that would be
lovely wouldn't it
can you imagine and then she said i made
a bed for you
and she says get into the bed get under
the blanket get all warm and i say oh
that's lovely thank you babushka
and then she says move over i'm getting
in with you and i'm like what
well here we are at
here's the sign finally
we've made it wow that was a long walk
let's go check it out